{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red249\green248\blue242;\red36\green36\blue35;\red138\green136\blue128;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c98039\c97647\c96078;\cssrgb\c18824\c18824\c18039;\cssrgb\c61176\c60392\c57255;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs18 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 ## 2026-03-14 | CLI vs GUI trade-offs \'97 choosing Claude Code over Claude Desktop\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **What happened**: Chose Claude Code (CLI) as my primary development tool instead of Claude Desktop (GUI app). Claude Code runs in the terminal and connects to external systems through MCP servers. Claude Desktop is a visual chat window with no programmatic integrations.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **What I learned**: CLI tools compose \'97 you can pipe output, script them, chain them with other tools, and integrate them into automated workflows. GUI tools are easier to learn initially but become bottlenecks when you need automation. This is the same reason production servers run headless Linux (no desktop environment): the GUI provides convenience but consumes resources and can't be scripted. Claude Code's real power is the MCP layer \'97 it can talk to GitHub, AWS, and other services directly, which a GUI chat window can't do.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **Design principle**: Composability over convenience \'97 choose tools that integrate with other tools, even if the initial learning curve is steeper. In software architecture, this shows up as preferring APIs over dashboards, microservices over monoliths, and event-driven systems over synchronous calls.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **Interview version**: "I chose Claude Code over the desktop GUI because I needed composability. Claude Code connects to GitHub and AWS through MCP servers, meaning the AI can take real actions on my infrastructure \'97 create repos, deploy Lambda functions, query DynamoDB \'97 all from one terminal session. It's the same principle behind why production systems use CLIs over dashboards: they compose into automated workflows."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 ---\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 ## 2026-03-14 | npm permissions and user-space isolation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **What happened**: `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code` failed with EACCES permission denied. macOS npm defaults to `/usr/local/lib/node_modules/`, which is owned by root. The quick fix is `sudo npm install -g`, but that gives every npm package root-level access to the system.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **What I learned**: The proper fix is redirecting npm's global directory to a user-owned location (`~/.npm-global`). This is the user-space isolation pattern \'97 install tools in a directory you control rather than a system-wide directory requiring elevated privileges. The same pattern appears in Python virtual environments, Docker non-root containers, Lambda scoped IAM roles, and Kubernetes service accounts. Never elevate permissions when you can scope them down.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **Design principle**: Least privilege / user-space isolation \'97 every component gets only the access it needs. If a compromised npm package runs a post-install script, it can only affect your user space, not the entire system. This is defense in depth applied to development tooling.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **Interview version**: "Even my local development setup follows least-privilege principles. Rather than using sudo for npm global installs, I configured a user-scoped directory. It's the same pattern as running Docker containers as non-root users or assigning Lambda functions scoped IAM roles \'97 never give more access than necessary, even in development."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 ---\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 ## 2026-03-14 | Project scoping and defense in depth for AI coding assistants\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **What happened**: Before letting Claude Code modify any files, I set up three layers of protection: physical scoping (only launching from the project directory), a CLAUDE.md config file with explicit boundaries, and keeping the default permission mode where every file write requires my approval.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **What I learned**: This is defense in depth \'97 the same security architecture used in production systems. No single control is sufficient on its own. A firewall doesn't replace IAM policies, and IAM policies don't replace application-level auth. You layer them. For AI-assisted development specifically, the risk is the AI modifying files outside your project scope or running destructive commands. Three independent controls make accidental damage very unlikely. Git as a safety net (commit before letting the AI work, use `git diff` to review changes) adds a fourth layer.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **Design principle**: Defense in depth \'97 layer multiple independent security controls so that the failure of any single control doesn't compromise the system. Each layer catches what the previous one might miss.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 **Interview version**: "I implemented defense in depth for my AI-assisted development workflow. The AI tool operates within three concentric security boundaries: physical directory scoping, a project-level config file with explicit constraints, and a permission system requiring manual approval for every file modification. I also use git as a fourth safety net \'97 committing before AI sessions so I can diff and revert any unintended changes."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'a0\cb1 \
}